---
title: 'Random House, Ballantine предложат бесплатные книги для пользователей Stanza'
date: Tue, 09 Dec 2008 21:48:31 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['publishers', 'marketing']
---

[Random House Publishing Group Makes Free Titles Available on Lexcycle's Stanza Reader | Lexcycle](http://www.lexcycle.com/press/random_house_free)

> New York, NY - December 8, 2008 -- The Random House Publishing Group and Lexcycle, Inc., jointly announced today that Random House and Ballantine will be the first major book publishers to make full-length books available for free on iPhone through Lexcycle Stanza, the most popular electronic book reader for the Apple iPhone and iPod Touch. This promotion will allow over 500,000 Stanza users to enjoy free eBooks from a varied list of authors including Alan Furst, Julie Garwood, Charlie Huston, David Liss, Laurie Notaro, Arthur Phillips and Simon Rich. The initial offerings will be drawn from each author's backlist and will include excerpts for any new hardcovers coming in 2009. Random House is providing links to retailers like Amazon, Barnes and Noble.com, Borders.com, Powells.com and IndieBound.org to encourage readers to purchase more books by these authors. "A free eBook is a great way to sample a new writer, and help spread the word," says Charlie Huston, whose novels 'Caught Stealing', 'Six Bad Things', and 'A Dangerous Man' will all be available on Stanza. "Besides, it's good to give things away. They're books. We write them for people to read them." Stanza users already have access to a public domain library which sees nearly 40,000 downloads a day. "Stanza has clearly tapped into an audience that's hungry for content, and we're happy to modify our traditional marketing methods to make use of the new technology available to readers today," commented Avideh Bashirrad, Deputy Director of Marketing for Random House. Neelan Choksi, Chief Operating Officer of Lexcycle, added, "We are thrilled to bring Stanza readers a sampling of the wealth of titles published by the Random House Publishing Group imprints. But this is just the tip of the iceberg: we look forward to extending this promotion to make even more free titles available."

Кажется, это более интересно, чем Penguin 2.0. Понятно, что это рекламы ради, но все равно.