---
title: 'News+ больше, чем газета'
date: Wed, 24 Nov 2010 21:12:07 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['media']
---

> All About News+
> ===============
> 
> In December 2009, Bonnier launched Mag+, a format that quickly set a new standard for digital magazines. Mag+ got a lot of attention worldwide in the trade press and was called "King of the Hill" by Steve Jobs when Apple launched the iPad.
> 
> The lessons learned from Mag+ have shaped the development of a new digital format for tomorrow's newspapers: News+.
> 
> News+ combines the depth and editorial choices of a daily newspaper with the web's possibilities for interaction and quick updates.
> 
> Browsing News+ and absorbing the content comes naturally, making readers feel close to the articles and photos. You can follow the most important news as it develops in a special section that is continuously updated, so News+ keeps you on top of the news all day.
> 
> Subscribers get a daily newspaper with well-qualified and in-depth analysis, and the possibility to follow the most important events of the day - live.
> 
> The format was developed by several of Bonnier's daily newspapers along with Bonnier R&D. Readers have also been involved and had their say on the new format during development.
> 
> First out is Swedish morning daily _Dagens Nyheter_ with DN+, followed soon by dailies _Sydsvenskan_ and _Expressen_ and business dailies _Dagens Industri_ in Sweden and _Børsen_ in Denmark.
> 
> Applications for each of the newspapers will be available for downloading at Apple's App Store. Readers can choose to subscribe or buy single copies in the app.
> 
> More information will be available from each individual newspaper at the launch.

via [bonnier.com](http://www.bonnier.com/newsplus)

Не повторение печатной версии, и не веб. Нечто ортогональное. Смесь гугловской метафоры timeline и слоу-медиа.