---
title: 'New Yorker для iPad'
date: Mon, 27 Sep 2010 19:33:04 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['media', 'apps']
---

> _The New Yorker_, the iconic magazine title from publisher Condé Nast, today released an app for the iPad using the [Digital Magazine Solution from Adobe](http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/digitalpublishing/). Available on the Apple App Store, _[The New Yorker tablet edition](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/the-new-yorker-magazine/id370614765?mt=8)_ preserves the look-and-feel of the print publication, and adds interactive audio, video and slideshows to supplement the magazine’s signature mix of reporting and commentary.
> 
> Adobe collaborated with _The New Yorker_ to launch the iPad edition, in part because the publication’s design challenges represented a different end of the magazine publishing spectrum.  While the goal [in working with monthly publication _WIRED_](http://blogs.adobe.com/digitalpublishing/2010/09/the-new-yorker.html/../2010/05/introducing_wired_magazine_on_ipad.html) was to preserve the fidelity of its richly designed pages, _The New Yorker_ posed a different opportunity in that it demanded not only design fidelity, but flexibility due to its weekly, text-heavy nature. To solve this design and production challenge, _The New Yorker_ used HTML pages as part of its tablet edition. HTML provided flexibility for The New Yorker to rapidly flow text into the magazine application and meet the requirements of a frequent publishing cycle.  In the future, the Digital Magazine Solution will provide the option of using either HTML pages for flexible publishing or rasterized images for publishers that demand pixel-perfect layouts.

via [blogs.adobe.com](http://blogs.adobe.com/digitalpublishing/2010/09/the-new-yorker.html)

Adobe хвастается — сделали New Yorker для iPad. В отличие от Wired — лёгкий, поскольку не растеризованная графика, а чистый HTML. Ну, ок. Потом посмотрим.